Coding Explanation
====================

Within our Jupyter Notebook we use python library called ``subprocess``

Python code allows us to import many libraries into our code. The libraries are
bundles of pre written python modules, with many functions with different roles. 

This Library ``subprocess`` allows us to spawn new command line processes, send input informations to
them and recieve output results or errors.

For example, when we wish to open our original image:

1. We define the location of our program (for this case show.sh).
2. We use the ``call`` function from subprocess library.

.. code-block:: python

    # Check the original image
    run_command_before = 'bash ~/ai_example/show.sh orange before' #1st
    subprocess.call((run_command_before.split('\n')), shell=True)  #2nd

The ``call`` function allows us to execute our *command* in command line interface and recieve
the returncode from the said *command*. We can force the cell to create a new shell window by 
turning the shell option within call function *True*.

Our command is a shell script which is a file that contains pre-written shell commands 
inside them. 

We have total of 3 shell programs:

1. show.sh
2. detect.sh
3. kill.sh

* show.sh program would create a new display to show either the input image or the input video.
* detect.sh program would run inference on an input image(s), video(s) or a camera feed. 
* kill.sh program would kill the created display, and the camera feed (if it ever was created)

